Hey,
guys.
In our previous video we created or user stable,
we created some mechanisms that are close to at least create the user on doll on,
find a user with a matching using human passwords.
So what we need to do know is actually start creating our log in forms so that we can
create.
I use their session Onda a low authentication across other pages on actually start imposing
restrictions on or Peaches.
Now step one is going to have me create a brand new file,
and I'm going to explain what the purpose off this fire is.
So I'm going to create a new file inside of my includes folders.
I click includes creating file on.
I'm calling this one session dot PHP No,
in order for us to handle.
Ah,
let's see toe pervious user information across our website.
Once you have love being,
we have to use over call a session or cookie or their certain super variables that are
there.
So a cookie stored on the person's machine a session is stored in the server for under
server.
So we're using sessions.
Andi In order to get the use off sessions in Peachtree,
we have to run a directive on Doyle.
It's really a function.
And that function is session.
Underscore.
Start.
All right,
so the reason I put it in its own file just for this one line is that we can include this
file everywhere.
So I'm going to go ahead and include this fire this file on our header dot PHP,
Pete.
So instead,
off includes that us.
Fine.
Ended up PHP on the first thing that should be done on the header dot PHP is include our
session dot PHP file.
All right,
so I did that and I included some amount off some some comments,
so you know exactly what's happening there.
All right,
so we have a recession that pH be included on our hitter file on once the header is
included somewhere session dot PHP is implied.
Onda,
we can utilize over session variables across our website.
Next,
I'm going to make some modifications toe to this.
Um,
first,
to fix that spelling error.
Andi,
I'm going to make some modifications to this love bar where I want section toe the right.
Another spring it up.
So over here,
we want a button that's is logging on if the person has loved being,
then we want to change it to,
like,
a welcome message and the Lago.
But so I'm going to me that modification here.
So you know what I accomplish that we need to modify how the lives look.
Admittedly,
I didn't find this very easily on the bootstrap documentation.
Somewhere is going to do it here on.
If you want to go on double,
check it and you find it.
Then please show me the page.
But I'm going to do it.
So I know it's done in bootstrap for after much rigor and experimentation.
So I'm going to modify this first day of class with nav bar enough.
And I'm went at another classes says Empire Dash auto.
So this is my way of saying I want you to always be on the left hand side on.
Then I'm just into copy and peace because I need a similar construct.
But then this one is going to say M l dash auto aren't on.
Then if I just reload this page very quickly,
we're not done.
Number three loading,
So you can see.
Then we see here that we have are two original links.
These are the m r audible than we know have to the right.
Inside the same tooling is because,
well,
we copied on piece of them.
So we know we have a section to the right,
and we have a section to the left on.
No,
we can dictate what happens on the right hand side of four PHR.
Someone to remove Well,
instead of removing,
understands,
modify.
So I have the link that says home.
But this one I'm going to make it see lugging all right?
And then I went to make it.
Never get to log in that PHP.
So if somebody is not love being then they should see the button.
So the rights that is Le Guin on.
Then I can refresh on.
Then we will see the log in button and if we try to navigate or getting an air because that
does not exist.
So we need to go and create our log in button.
So I create a new file at the root on this one is going to be log in that P H p no for long
.
In that ph.
B,
it's going to kind of share quite a few things with the other pages.
Understand?
To go to maybe edit on.
I'm going to copy the first part of the PHP block place.
Over here.
We change the title on this is logging page or will user speeds Logan on?
We're including the same files on I don't need any of thes query sergeants.
Remove those real quickly.
All right,
so that's the top off our log in page.
No,
I'm going toe expedites this video and I'm going to just ah,
go ahead and create the form.
And then we come back and we dissected together.
All right,
so I went ahead and created this form pretty quickly.
And I'm going to walk you through some off the differences between how this form will
behave and hope our attendance registration form will behave.
So,
firstly,
I'm echoing the title because,
you know,
I'm just going on each one tug or the each one time would take Centre has the echo
statement in it for the title.
And so over.
Titles being printed at the top user log in.
We also see it here in our title bar.
Next we have Oh,
are sorry about that.
We have our form with an action that looks entirely different from what we have seen upon
to this point,
but or method is still equal to pull,
so we'll get back to the action in this form.
I use the table to help with my layout.
So I'm using one TD for the user name or for the label and one for the the text box.
Onda.
The value here has quite a bit of text,
which I'll get back to on.
Then I'm putting in some some share a message with the army and I use that.
Let me take it all from no for no to avoid any confusion.
I kind of got excited when I did all of that.
I'm sorry,
but I'll put it back and we can go through together on then.
I'm using another role for the labels on the controls for the password,
and then we have or submit Button,
which is beating primary beaten block under a little forgot password link,
and this is what it renders.
All right,
so that is what all of that court renders.
And this is our new lugging form.
No,
What we need to do is where it up so that when the person clicks lugging,
it moves to appeal.
Those verification on then takes an action.
I don't know if you've ever noticed,
but when you click when you're using a log,
inform you cannot behaves differently from most other forms with a little forms.
Move on to another.
PH,
like we did with our registration on success speech aren't in terms off the log.
Inform it.
Kind off was sit on the CMP essentially the same information you just tried to enter until
you get it right.
So that is the reason for this particularly unique looking action code,
and I would explain it.
Firstly,
we have a super verbal called server,
which allows us to say PHP self meaning that I want this page.
The action should be this same page,
aren't so inside off action.
If we go back to our index page,
we had success that PHP,
which means move I had on go to the speech.
I want in on the circulation,
regardless off what this speech is called.
In this case,
it's PHP.
It's logging that PHP,
but which the server PHP self will just say.
Reload this page and do the posting action on this speech,
which means that we have quite a bit off quarter rise on that is actually very possible
because we can actually reload the same page on do other verifications that we did on the
success that PHP.
We can do it on the CMP to the form and then taken action afterward.
So that's what we'll be doing with Log in On because it will be reloading itself.
That is why I have this this block of text inside off the Value section for using him.
We're seeing if the request Methodists post,
meaning that if the pages loading because off a post action,
as opposed to meet us clicking the link,
then I want to reprint whatever using name was entered.
So that's why when you click submit,
you may see the password section blank haute notice.
Pastor doesn't have that same code,
so the pastor sexual Blanco,
but you use anymore email address or whatever it is is still in the textbooks waiting for
you to enter the card password.
So that's what we're trying to accomplish here with this score.
Um,
I just realized I didn't finish explaining the PHP self.
So where were posting back?
Toe the page with the pH?
Be self.
But then you notice that this entire super verb is wrapped up inside off this function.
HTML entities on what HTML entities does this kind of strip the text that is going to be
produced by this it strips it off any special characters and potentially militias
characters that would alot Attackers still kind off inject whatever malicious school they
could want.
So this bites of has the pH piece of the server pH piece of has some vulnerabilities that
can be exploited.
Andi ph.
B.
Has given us this function to kind off reduce the possibility off that exploitation.
All right,
so know that we have a better understanding off all of the school.
You can always just replay this and you can posit and go ahead and rewrite your form.
So there you write it just like me,
or you have your own way off writing it at the key parts that I want our that you get the
action section rate and whether the value section is actually optional.
We'll make sure you get the action.
Six generators,
what we're about to do this sparks is very vital.
All right,
so our next task is toe check.
If the data was submitted by,
ah form post requests.
So,
like I said,
we could navigate to the to the page just by clicking log in.
Or if I click the submit button,
it will also reload.
Say,
noses.
I click.
It is reloading the page.
That's because of the PHP self.
So I need to check if it was a long in button that was pressed or if I just navigated there
.
So this is another way off checking that we did it in the index page where we checked.
He set or did sorry in the success speech,
Right?
Sorry about that.
So in the success page with checked is set post submit.
So that's one way of green.
Another way of doing it is using or server super variable,
some,
actually just in the bar of this entire if statement,
as it does a very similar thing.
Except it doesn't rely on the presence off that that that value.
So this one relied on the father beers are post variable called submits coming over.
If there was no submit than this would have failed.
However,
this is far more generic.
Where it's seeing is there opposed?
I don't care about what variables may or may not be.
There was their request method called Post,
and we already told it that the method is equal to post,
which means once you click,
submit it will trigger a post.
Andi,
it is going toe.
The action is itself.
So no,
we're checking.
Is it being loaded because the submit button was pressed on then if it was,
that means somebody was trying to log in,
which means no,
we need to take some amount of action.
So the first action I want to do is get the user name on day.
I'm going to use to so string manipulation functions there,
some using str to lower and true.
So what I'm doing is removing all white spaces from the user name that is coming through
the post on.
Then I'm making everything lower key so that the chances off the user name matching in the
database are much higher when you kind off,
you know,
manipulated and massaged.
So it looks as as clean as whole.
You'd have stories in a bit of Eastern on,
then that's being stored inside off using him on.
Then we take the password,
which we want to take exactly the way it was typed.
So I'm not going to try toe fix the password in any way,
shape or form,
because this person should have type the password.
The exact we that it was entered into the database the first time.
Then I'm going to build a new password.
All right,
so I'm going to introduce any variable.
I'm calling it new password,
and we would This looks very familiar.
We're hashing the password on use any combination like we did inside off our user dot PHP
on.
The reason for this is that if we're about to check the data business,
see if the posture discourage and we can't be checking the database against the password
that the person would have entered in the log inform our So if I goto the log in former no
,
I typing,
admit I'm literally going to write in the word password because that's what I set my pastor
does.
However,
we know in the database that the text password is not what is stored there.
That is what the story there.
So whenever we're going to check after I click,
log in and I'm going to check the database.
I need to make sure I'm checking the hush off.
Whatever was entered against the hush off,
whatever is stored,
you don't want to do it,
Universe,
you don't want to try and the are on hash.
We switch over,
discard.
You don't want to decrypt the password,
and then try and check it against the plain text.
You want a hash?
No plain text on.
Then check it against what was stored.
The two will.
The two hashes should be equal.
And only then you will know that this user exists.
So having our new password,
the next thing is that we want to call our user objects.
All right.
So,
user arrow on,
then the function I want to call is get user.
All right,
so let me just make sure I'm making the right function call.
So it's get user with the user name and password.
So,
in Logan,
I'm calling.
Get user with using name and password on.
It wouldn't be password,
but it would be new password.
All right.
So as the function doesn't look here If it's getting the plain text or it's getting
gibberish,
it just wants to know what he got.
Two parameters.
One for the user name and one for the password on.
Then it will go ahead and do its verifications where it checks to see if there's a using
him with that user name and password with that password,
which would be the hushed password that were passing in at this point.
All right,
so off course it's returning a result.
So we need toe.
Same result is equal to,
um there is whatever comes back after this function car on.
Then after we meet that function call,
we need to see if I understand to see if not results.
So went through this already.
We can district the negative first.
So if not results meaning it's going to return was going to return falls if nothing and
results.
So I can I can probably modify this up it.
So if not results,
then we want toe echo.
If we can error.
So understand,
to put eco developer danger use anymore.
Password is in carats.
Please try again on.
Then I'm going to see else.
Andi,
my else is going to have me set off a session for the user.
So the session is already created.
Way started this session when we said start session.
Know what we need to do is set up variables inside of decision.
So our session actually gives us some super verbals that allow us to set values so I can
super variable session.
All right.
I noticed that all the superheroes have that dollar sign on the score on then our caps just
on the server decide the post and get etcetera.
But Sessional owes me to dictate what subscript I want someone to say.
User name,
session using name is going to be equal toe the value off whatever user name was just
authenticated.
All right,
so this is a part off the authentication.
So it's the using him that was very fired.
Rather So it's verified that it's in the database on the card pastor does provided so we
can create a session with that user names.
So this session variable will Alois the store to use any in so that we don't have to go
back to the database anytime we want to use the name.
But we can just reference decision wherever we want in our court.
All right,
so we create one for the user name on.
I'm just going to create another one.
Sorry.
On when to create another one for the i d so session I d is going to be equal to on.
We just got back results,
so I can actually just say results on Look for the subscript i d and store that inside of
that.
So once again,
our session variables are like a temporary holding era for anything that we want on.
We can let them persists throughout users sessions.
All right on.
Then,
after we verified the user and we set up the session,
the next thing we want to do is reall redirect our user from the log in page on someone to
see Loki Shun Colon and then my destination.
Let's just save you records dot PHP are.
So once this user is verified on decision is created,
then we can redirect them.
So the view records that PHP.
All right,
So know that we've done all of this work.
Let's see if our cold,
you know,
it's test our theory as we always do.
So we have the log in page.
And the expectation is that when I stop in admin Onda password then click logging that we
should be verified against the database on,
then redirected toe our view records that 50.
So when I do that and click log in,
we were redirected.
So it happens that lining fast.
You didn't even know that all of the core that we just wrote actually came into play.
So what happened is when I click Duggan,
he reloaded itself.
The page reloaded itself on then at the top of the page or the sea.
Is it opposed?
Yes,
it is.
Our ads Get me the user.
Name the password.
Hash the password Check if there is a user on.
If there is,
then we when we do all this fancy nous So on the flip side,
I'm going toe.
Go back to logging on.
I'm going to put in a user that doesn't exist.
Alright on then.
When I click log in,
we see that the page loads.
We get this alert.
Seeing used a name or password is incorrect because we put in that statement that if not
results meaning we didn't get back anything positive from this call,
then we just want on alert that is using a more possible using parts.
Generally speaking,
you don't want to tell them which one is encouraged because you don't want to solve half
proposal for them,
right?
So we just give them that alert on If you notice that the user name value that was typed in
remains inside of the text box on that's because off what we did here with the value if it
is opposed action then reprints the user name value that is there aren't so that is part
one off our battle solved.
Now,
another quick model we need to do to me is to change this logging.
So I have lugging.
And if I'm love being this textiles and changes,
I want to contextually show the word logging or the link to logging versus hello user name
and a logo.
But so I'm going to go back to my header that PHP file on guy actually started that process
already where I have the lugging link.
But what I'm going to do is wrap it are owned on if statement that is going to check to see
if the session exists,
are not so we know how to check if something exists.
Um,
first,
then went to fire up a little Ph b block.
All right,
we know we need those for your statements on.
Then we see if on we shouldn't know that to check your something exists are not so I'm
going to say not is set.
All right,
so I'm checking if the session does not exist.
Alright,
so I'm going to see session Super variable Onda.
Uh,
I have idea of using him,
so I know that my decisions that I'm creating inside off my logging are using him.
Andi,
I'd be all right,
so I can check against either one.
Because the only time these get created is when somebody has been verifying in the database
.
Andi gets passed along.
All right,
so in the header file,
I'm just going to say if there is no session by the name off idee and I'm not going to
qualify this a bit more,
I shouldn't say idea what to say,
user,
I d.
All right,
So there is no session by the name user I d or whatever you call it your session,
Then I want to take an action.
Someone to kind off butcher of this speech being called?
No.
So this statement is going to say me the chick.
All right,
Andi on.
Then I'm going to print my anchor tug.
So if there is no session,
I want to print the anchor tag.
And then after close that after open up another PHP block.
Just the clothes that that open brace.
All right,
so this opened This girl's brings much is this one,
so that's just going to be wrapped up.
So there are many ways he could that you could have just called this line by itself.
That's fine.
But then if you have quite a few uncle tiles and so on echoing,
they might get tedious.
So that's why I didn't choose that route.
So if the session does not exist,
then display the log in on then I'm going to see else and then open up another.
If will calibri early brace block which understand too close.
Same time because I don't want to forget.
All right,
Ana,
put in the wrong.
All right,
so the else is goingto happen between this speech B block on this speech.
We all right?
So that's between 9 30 It online for two right now.
What do we want to display?
So once again,
we're checking.
If the session does not exist,
then we want to display the lugging.
If it does exist,
then I don't want to display the log in button.
Instead,
I would probably display the anchor tug on.
This one is going to say log boat about PHP.
So it's a law goat on Kurtag for it on going to display some block off text and I'm putting
it in a spun Spanta is a nice way to just inject some text somewhere on.
I'm going to say hello on day.
Using him that I want is going to be stored inside of the session using names to remember
that in log in,
we created a session variable with using him.
So instead of me having to go to the database every time after this to find out what the
user name is,
I can just use this value toe,
represent using him,
So I'm just going toe span Hello on den.
Put in a quick PHP.
So that's a great thing about PHP blocks.
We can just insert them almost anywhere on dime saying hello.
And I went to echo whatever value is inside off the and the session using him on the I
understand to put an exclamation saying after this.
So,
in other words,
it should print Hello.
Hello?
I mean,
with an exclamation side Pirates and all of that would be inside the spun on the spine
would be adjacent to the law global.
So we haven't created the logo peed just yet,
But let's see if that makes any difference.
Understand?
To re fresh.
All right,
um,
going to try and log in.
I mean,
password again.
All right,
so we see that we're getting some amount of action.
It's not elegant,
but we see Hello.
We see admin and we see a logo put.
All right,
so we can go back and style Hello and admin.
But I'm going to create the logo button first just to make sure that we have our bases
covered.
So I'm going to I have loved in the PHP understand?
To create a new file.
Call it logoed start PHP.
Andi just went ahead and put in the court.
So the lago dot PHP is really a simple page you don't need any header and footer and so on
,
so that the cool thing is that we created that session that PHP we have to include the
session.
All right,
so I can just included directly without having the header there aren't on.
Then I need to call the function that's his session.
Destroy.
So we started session session start,
and then we have toe destroyed.
So it's irony that we have to start the session that destroyed.
But the good thing is that once a session,
it started.
If this is called a second time,
will know it was started.
So that's why we have to call it here.
So it knows that okay,
a session is already in progress on.
Then it will destroy whatever station is in progress on,
then just relocate Ari directors.
So the index ph are so if I go ahead and click law goats than expectations that this entire
section is going to see Hello,
admin.
Sorry,
It's going to see a log in once again.
And there we go.
So log in is restored,
we click log in and we go ahead and put in a user that exists Admin password log in and
then we get a context to a 1,000,000.
So that's a nice,
quick way to get up context.
Your menu on that menu will exist for every other page until we click Love boats.
All right,
Alright.
So back in the header file,
I just made a quick change where I replicated that same on Qatar.
Glink.
So instead of having our span for one said and then the appetite for another said,
I just included the same uncle talk and I put that span takes inside off the anchor tug on
then in the e True if I just made it on us with the hashtag sits a dead link.
All right,
so then when the many lords,
then we see it's it looks more sensible than it did before,
All right,
And even for cricket,
nothing happens.
There is a link,
but love boat still works.
All right,
so that concludes our first or second part off setting up our user authentication after
this organ to start.
Actually,
Tung Ping Doan on which pages require log in Ondo,
which ones Don's